wf - word frequency
===================

---

# Overview

* The *wf* (_word frequency_) program counts the number of words in a file or
input stream.  The twenty most frequent words are displayed.

* The *wf* program takes zero or one command line arguments.  If zero command
line arguments are provided the program input is taken from the _standard
input_ stream.  If one command line argument is provided this must be a
readable file, the contents of which will be used as the input.

* Any data input must be successfully processed even if it is not ASCII data.

* The word frequency output will be to the _standard output_ stream.

* Each record of output will be on a single line.  The first field of the
output line will be the frequency for the given word.  The second field of the
output line will be the given word.

* A word is defined as containing one or more letter from the character
set _[a-zA-Z]_.  Note that ligatures are not included for words.

* Output records will be displayed starting with the most frequent word and
terminating with the twentieth most frequent word.  If two words have the same
frequency the records will be display in reverse lexicographical order of the
word.

* Any character *not* within the character set _[a-zA-Z]_ as well as the end
of input delimits a word.

* Frequencies are determined based on case independence.  For example "Hello"
and "hello" are considered equivalent.

---

# Shell Equivalent Command Job

The *wf* program produces equivalent output to the following _UN*X_ command
line job.  Note that *wf.sh* is included in the scripts directory and is shown
in the command documented below.  _GNU_ and _BSD_ flavors of the below
commands have slight differences.  Please note that whitespace output by the
shell command below will be different between _GNU_ and _BSD_.

```shell
#! /usr/bin/env sh

cat $1 \
    | tr -cs 'a-zA-Z' '[\n*]' \
    | grep -v '^$' \
    | tr '[:upper:]' '[:lower:]'\
    | sort \
    | uniq -c \
    | sort -nr \
    | head -20

exit $?
```

---

# Usage

## Example

The following demonstrates executing the *wf* program with the word
"hello" repeated three times as input with different cases.  The output
is a single record reporting that "hello" has a frequency of three within
the input stream.

```shell
$ echo "HELLO Hello hello" | wf
      3 hello
```

---

## Testing

The _sample_ directory contains _input_ files as well as the corresponding
_output_ files.  The output files are generated by the _script/wf.sh_ script.
The generated _Makefile_ contains targets to execute the *wf* program and
compare the output to the known good output.  The _sample-test_ Makefile
target will run all of the sample tests.  When comparing the output the
"diff -w" command is used to ignore all whitespace.

---

# Enhancements

1. Implement a trie traversal function.

2. Instead of inserting into the heap for each word processed postpone the
   heap insert until after all words are processed and the trie is
   complete.

3. Optimize the heapNode and trieNode objects to be less tethered to each
   other and more generic.

---
